This getInstance static method in BeanManager is
used in a naive Singleton pattern.
This is not how you should create Singletons in production applications,
but this is just an example.
So this is going to return the BeanManager instance.
Let's get rid of this code, create this as a field,
private static BeanManager instance, and we are going to create it here,
new BeanManager.
Let us make this constructor private BeanManager.
Here, in the construction of this object,
we need to check all the classes and all the methods that have been
annotated with this Provides annotation because a BeanManager needs to
know all the types that it will have to inject in the fields of the
object it will have to create.
So for that,
it needs to have a list of all the classes of the application that can
have Provides annotation on some of the methods.
Now getting this list of classes is quite tricky to say the least,
and, in fact,
there is no way in the JDK to simply get the list of the
classes that have been loaded by an application.
There are several outside APIs to do that,
including Guava, for instance, or another API called Reflections,
but those APIs are not part of the JDK.
So since this is not really the problem we want to deal with,
we are going to create this list by hand just by List.of and pass
the H2ConnectionProvider class to this List.
Let me put this in a variable, which is just a List of Class of question mark,
and those are the classes I want to deal with.
Once again, in a real application,
you will have to write some code here to get the proper list of the classes.
And then for all the classes in those classes,
we need to check all the methods that have been
annotated with this Provides annotation.
So let me get the DeclaredMethods from those classes,
put this in a variable, and for each of those methods,
this is a method,
I want to check if the Provides annotation is on this method or not,
so I'm just going to call getAnnotation Provides.class.
So this is an object of type Provides.
And if this annotation is not null,
then I have a method that is a provider that is going to
be able to create an object from it.
What is the type of the object this method can create?
This is the written type of that method.
Let us put this in a variable.
This is the returnType of that method.
And now what I want to store in a registry associated to this
return type is something that is going to be able to invoke that
method with no arguments and get the result.
So in fact,
what I want to associate with this type is a recipe to be
able to create an instance of this type.
And this recipe is the invocation of the method.
It's not the method itself.
It's really the invocation of the method.
So, in fact, this should be a Supplier.
A Supplier is a lambda expression that does not take any
argument and that returns something,
and this something is going to be created by
invoking the method I am looking at.
So the basic code I need to write here is method.invoke.
It is not supposed to take any argument,
but it supposed to be invoked on an object.
And this object should be an instance of the class I'm
looking at if this method is not static.
And if this method is static, then it can be new.
So let me create an instance of this class, getConstructor.
I'm reaching the no-arg constructor.
Call newInstance on that,
and this is going to be an instance of Object because I
have no information on this class,
and this method is going to be invoked on that object.
And this is basically the correct object I need to return.
This code should be invoked if the method I'm looking at is not static.
So to check that,
I need to call the Modifier.isStatic factory method on
the method.getModifiers integer, and of course,
this code should be invoked if this method is not static.
So like that.
And if it is static,
that I can directly return the invocation of this method on the null object.
This is the way the API has been created.
Let me add this.
Of course, all this code is throwing exceptions.
Let me wrap this in a try/catch.
I'm not really interested in this collection of exceptions,
but I still need to be aware that an exception has been thrown by this code.
So I'm going to rethrow this exception in the
RuntimeException that does not need to be called.
RuntimeException created on the real exception that has been thrown.
Right.
So I have my return type.
I have my supplier.
Now I need to store this in a registry.
So let me put this in a registry, the returnType, and the supplier.
All I need to do is create this registry as a field.
This field is, of course, a Map.
The key of that Map are types,
so Class of question mark and the values the Supplier of question mark.
And I can get the default implementation of Map, which is basic HashMap.
And if I put this registry.put here,
it will not work because I am inside the Supplier there,
so I need to put it here.
So this code is just creating an instance of my BeanManager,
and it provides in a registry an association between the types it will need to inject and the recipe to create the instances of those types.